Welcome, this week I'll teach
you about the transformer model.
It's a purely attention based model
that was developed as Google to remedy
some problems with RNNs.
First, let me tell you
what these problems are so
you understand why
the transformer model is needed.
Let's dive in.
First, I will talk about
some problems related to
recurrent neural networks using
some familiar architectures.
After that,
I'll show you why pure attention
models help us solve those issues.
In neural machine translation,
you use a neural architecture to translate
from one language to another,
in this example, from English to French.
Using an RNN, you have to take
sequential steps to encode your inputs.
You start from the beginning
of your input,
making computations at every
step until you reach the end.
At that point, you decode the information
following a similar sequential procedure.
As you can see here, you have to go
through every word in your inputs,
starting with the first word, followed
by the second word, one after another.
In a sequential matter in order to
start the translation that is done in
a sequential way too.
For that reason, there is not much
room for parallel computations here.
The more words you have
in the input sentence,
the more time it will take
to process that sentence.
Let's look closer at a more general
sequence-to-sequence architecture.
In this case, to propagate information
from your first word to the last output,
you have to go through
capital T sequential steps.
Where capital T is an integer that
stands for the number of time steps that
your model will go through to process
the inputs of one example sentence.
If, for instance, you are inputting
a sentence that consists of five words,
then the model will take five times
steps to encode that sentence,
and in this example T equals to five.
And as you may recall from earlier in
the specialization with large sequences,
the information tends to get
lost within the network and.
Vanishing gradients problems arise related
to the length of your input sequences.
LSCMs and GRUs help a little with these
problems, but even those architectures
stop working well when they try to
process very long sequences due to
the information bottleneck, as you
saw in the last week of this course.
So to recap,
we said we have a loss of information and
then we have the vanishing
gradients problem.
Including attention in your model
is a way to tackle these problems.
You already saw and implemented
a sequence-to-sequence architecture with
attention similar to
the one depicted here.
Recall that you relied on LSTMs for
your encoder and decoder, but
you could also have used GRUs or
just vanilla RNNs.
In contrast, transformers rely
only on attention mechanisms and
don't require the use of recurrent
networks in a transformer,
attention is all you need.
Well, some linear and non-linear
transformations are usually included, but
you get the idea.
Now you understand why RNNs can be slow
and can have big problems with contexts.
These are the cases where
transformers can help.
Next, I'll show you a concrete
overview of the transformers.
Let's go to the next video.